Background tasks & Graphile worker docs #116 (#185)
graphile/graphile.github.io: src/pages/postgraphile/background_tasks.md

---
layout: page
path: /postgraphile/background-tasks/
title: Background Tasks in PostGraphile 
---

> In your GraphQL server typically most processing will be done in the "frontground", as part of the request-response cycle. HTTP is a blocking protocol: once a client sends a request, it will wait for a reponse. This blocking nature requires the server to be fast at serving responses, to avoid keeping the client waiting for ever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your GraphQL server typically most processing will be done in the "foreground", as part of the request-response cycle. However, since clients typically wait for this request cycle to complete before allowing the user to continue to the next task, if this processing is slow it will make your application feel sluggish and can frustrate your users. Because of this desire for low-latency APIs, it's good practice to only perform essential calculations during the request-response cycle, and to "queue" additional tasks for background processing. 
```

> But sometimes it is impossible to serve the response fast, for example we might need to do some heavy task like creating PDFs, calling an external API that takes a long time to respond, big calculations, or doing flaky tasks that need retries like sending an email. Or you might want to run some code periodically, detached from a user action. This are all good cases for background processing: the code runs outside of main request-response cycle, storing the result somewhere (typically on the database) and (optionally) notifying the client once it has finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of potential background tasks include creating PDFs, sending emails, calling an external API that may be slow, performing big calculations, and the like. Background tasks are also a good way of dealing with tasks where temporary failures are expected, for example you might not be able to send an email immediately - rather than failing the request-response cycle we can just try again (and again, and again) over the coming seconds, minutes, and hours. Another task you might want to solve with background tasks is running code periodically, detached from a user action. These are all good cases for background processing: the code runs outside of main request-response cycle, storing the result somewhere (typically on the database) and (optionally) notifying the client once it has finished.
```

Task queues are systems that enable background processing for an application. They enable a way to persist this background processing tasks, notify the workers and handle errors and re-tries.

### Tasks queues and workers for Postgres

There are several exisiting solutions that can integrate with a PostgreSQL database or expose a Node.js-friendly API.

- Graphile Worker
- GCP Cloud Tasks

> - Faktory

Reviewer: These two should have "(via Graphile Worker)" appended?

Author: Well, I was thinking of a structure for the docs like this
1. What are background tasks intro
2. General purpose libraries/solutions for background tasks
3. Graphile Worker intro
4. Combining Graphile worker with other libraries/solutions

What do you think of that order? Maybe we could simply do
1. What are background tasks intro
2. Graphile Worker intro
3. Combining Graphile worker with other libraries/solutions
4. Other libraries/solutions as reference (not supported with examples on how to integrate them)

Thoughts?

Reviewer: Indifferent; the current order seems fine. I don't think you need to know what Graphile Worker is for the parens to make sense.

- RabbitMQ

> - ???

Reviewer: https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-boss

Also please make these all links :)

#### Choosing your Task Queue

> An important bit you will need to consider is how are tasks created in your queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important topic you will need to consider is how tasks are created in your queue.
```

> What else should we add here???

Reviewer: - Throughput requirements
- DevOps complexity
- Tracability
- Privacy
- Complexity

> The recommend approach is to use Graphile Worker or Graphile Woker + another task queue through task delegation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we generally recommend database-driven development, the recommend approach is to use Graphile Worker (or Graphile Worker + another task queue through task delegation) since you can add jobs to the queue both from inside PostgreSQL functions (and thus triggers) and from any other source.
```

### Graphile Worker

> The deepest integration with a PostGraphile stack is Graphile Worker. It is a simple library that allows to run Node.js code reactively to database events thanks to `LISTEN/NOTIFY` (similar to how Subscriptions work).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graphile Worker is a natural fit for a PostGraphile stack due to it's PostgreSQL-first nature. It is a simple library that runs Node.js code (or any code Node.js can delegate to) when a task is queued within the database. Thanks to PostgreSQL's `LISTEN/NOTIFY` pubsub features, Graphile Worker is notified when a task is queued and can fetch, execute, and complete a trivial task in 2-3ms from when it was queued; this results in your system feeling very snappy.
```

> Tasks are backed in Postgres (it uses its own schema), and offers a simple SQL API to create jobs. It is as simple as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graphile Worker stores tasks into it's own schema within PostgreSQL, and offers a simple SQL API to create jobs. Queueing a job might look like:
```

```sql
SELECT graphile_worker.add_job('hello', json_build_object('name', 'Bobby Tables'));
```

> Tasks are created in JavaScript/Typescript, so it fits directly into your PostGraphile stack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks are created in JavaScript/TypeScript, so it fits directly into your PostGraphile stack
```

```js
// tasks/hello.js
module.exports = async (payload, helpers) => {
  const { name } = payload;
  helpers.logger.info(`Hello, ${name}`);
};
```

> Check the [Graphile Worker docs]() for details on how to set up and use it.

Reviewer: Link to README

Author: Github worker repo for now?

#### Limitations
Despite all the benefits, Graphile Worker stills lacks some features provided by other more mature tasks queues

> - Currently Graphile Worker doesn't expose a GUI to monitor or manage tasks. You could create your own using PostGraphile and some client framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Currently Graphile Worker doesn't expose a GUI to monitor or manage tasks.
```
